We begin with the integral of e to
thex^2.
At the first glance, it looks harmless.
Just another exponential integral.
However, there is no way to write its
anti-derivative using usual functions
like polomials, exponents, functions or
trigonometric functions. That's what
makes our function so special. To work
with it, we mathematicians define the
error function f ofx as 2 over<unk> pi *
the integral from 0 to x of e to thet ^2
dt. That constant factor makes the
function align with probability theory
where it describes cumulative areas
under the gausian curve.
So when we look at the graph for this
this e to thet^2
on this graph you'll see the familiar
bellshaped curve of e to thet ^2. As we
move along the x-axis the error function
measures how much area we've swept under
the curve. Starting near zero, it
steadily rises
and
eventually leveling off at one.
Going to negativex makes it drop towards
negative one
showing its symmetry in the bell curve.
So the indefinite integral is written in
terms of f of x.
Far from being a curiosity, this
function appears everywhere in heat
diffusion normal distribution and
statistics,
quantum mechanics, anytime you've seen
gausian probability,
we are talking about a bell curve in
this instance. And when we're taking our
integral under it, we need to define a
special function because we cannot
take an integral using our elementary
functions.
So earth is always behind the scenes
when it comes to a bell curve. Now let's
look at its other counterpart which is
ei
um which is the imaginary.
Now let's flip the sign of the exponent
and instead we have e to the x^2 which
in an indefinite integral is which is
actually harder to deal with because it
grows exponentially. So we define
of x as 2 over<unk> pi time the integral
from 0 to x of e to the t² dt.
So despite its name, it is actually
revalued real valued because it just
comes from the analytic continuation of
the function. The formula is sim similar
to the error function but with e raised
to the t^2 instead of t ^2.
And here we're going to plot e to the
t^2. And notice how quickly that it
shoots upward even for even for some
lower values of t.
The values are going to just blast up
into the air. That means that the error
the imaginary error functiony grows very
fast compared to earth which always
stays bounded.
This function shows up a lot in wave
propagation
and certain solutions to the heat
equation.
and also in quantum mechanics as well
when we're talking about uh inverted
gausian terms. It's a reminder that
changing one side in the exponent can
change a lot about how a function
behaves and how we're going to take the
integral. So the integral from of e to
the x^2 dx is the<unk> pi / 2
imaginary error function of x plus c. So
we cannot define that using elementary
functions.
Soy
is different than the error function
because it shoots up exponentially and
it has a completely separate behavior to
that of
error function.
Next let's look at the s integral s of
x. So now we look at the oscilly
integrals where the integrant uh wiggles
endlessly as you will see. Consider we
have the integral of sine of sin of x
overx dx. This ratio arises in wave
physics and forier analysis a lot. We
define the integral sine
uh s of x as integral from 0 to x of sin
t / t dt.
It looks undefined at zero. The limit
exists and equals 1. So the integral
actually does make sense.
So when we're looking at its oscilly
behavior,
what we want to look at is its graph. So
its graph
is the sync function. So it oscillates
crossing the axis repeatedly while
slowly decaying in amplitude. When we
integrate it, the oscillations
accumulate giving C of X
which levels off towards a constant
value.
around 1.57
about so
but why does this even matter? Why do we
need uh s of x? Well, we need s of x
because s and cosine integrals describe
different defraction patterns, antenna
radiation, signal processing filters and
are used in analyzing waves.
there are used anytime waves need to be
understood in terms of spreading their
interference.
So this is very useful in physics
and it is also very useful in uh
engineering as well for this exact
purpose because we're looking at we're
looking at signal and breaking down
waves into small parts s and cosine.
Next we have the gamma function. The
gamma function is one of the most famous
special functions because it's basically
the continuous factorial.
So its definition is gamma of x equals
the integral from 0 to infinity of t
raised to the x -1 e to the - t dt.
And one of the most important things
about this is that it collapses to gamma
of n equals n minus one factorial.
But the gamma function works for even
fractions and complex number which fills
in the gap in the factorial function
because remember when we're taking a
factorial we just if we say we have
three factorial we are talking about 3 *
2 * 1 but what about 1/2 factorial gamma
is what gives us that little gap.
So if we plot the integrant for x= 3, it
looks like t^2 e to the - t because it
rises first because of the t ^2 term,
but it decays over time forcing it back
down.
This delicate balance is what makes the
gamma function finite.
So this is how we define uh certain
factorials
that are fractions or just negative
numbers not integers.
So some of the best applications for
this are
are probability theory and gamma
distribution.
It can also help in a lot in number
theory as well defining what 1/ half
factorial may be or what a negative
factorial could mean.
It also appears in physics with
partition functions and statistical
mechanics a lot and a lot of these
special functions have to do with
statistical mechanics because of their
wave and analytical type behavior.
And anytime factorials extend beyond the
integers then this is the tool we'll
use. So next is the bezel the basil
functions JV of X. So next is the bezel
function which naturally appears when
solving differential equations in
cylindrical or spherical coordinates.
So they're defined by an oscilly
integral
j sub0
= 1 / pi time the integral from 0 to pi
of cosine of x sin to
d tow. So while we have a complicated
while it's complicated in definition
they behave like damped oscillations
and you'll see when you'll see visually
what I mean by these oscillations are
damped.
So when we look at the graph of uh j0 of
x notice that we have a wavelike
pattern. It starts at one and oscillates
with decreasing amplitude.
Unlike s or cosine, its zeros aren't
equally spaced
and its decay is much slower
than that of s or cosine functions.
The result, the bezel function describes
vibrations,
electromagnetic waves,
and solutions to radial heat equations
when we're talking about oscilly and
cylindrical problems. So, whenever we
have a physics problem where we're
looking at it from a a oscilly or
spherical or cylindrical angle, we're
going to want to apply bezel functions.
Um, if we have symmetry because that
will help us easier solve the problem
because sometimes the answer is cannot
be found using elementary functions.
Next is the poly logarithm function.
L I of S of X = 1 / the gamma function
of S time the integral from 0 to
infinity of T raised to the S -1 over E
to the T /X -1
for s= 2 we get a dial logarithm which
links directly to the famous constants
of the Raymon zeta function very
interesting part of math
Well, it's way harder to actually
visualize
uh li as a poly logarithmic function. We
can approximate li2
between zero and one. It rises smoothly
curving towards known values
like zeta of 2 =<unk>^2 / 6 when x = 1.
So while this function is very
complicated, there is still a lot that
we are trying to figure out about it,
especially because we're talking about
uh the Raymon zeta function and its
solutions which are still not uh very
well known or not very researched upon
yet because of its complex
uh complex math behind it. So poly
logarithms they appear in quantum
statistics especially in firmy durac and
bose einstein distributions and
and they also show up in not theory
algebraic geometry and obviously zeta
values when we're talking about the
raymon zeta function and trying to find
the solutions to that function. They're
a bridge between physics and also
mathematics too because this function is
mainly mathematical.
And there's still a lot we don't know
about this function.
But maybe one day we'll be able to we'll
be able to know even more about this
type of function.
And lastly is the Fresno integrals C of
X and S ofX. So our final example comes
from integrating cossine of t^2 and s of
t^2.
So these are called the fresnal
integrals. We define c of x as the
integral from 0 to x of cosine of t^2 dt
and s of x as the integral of 0 to x of
sin of t^2 dt.
together they trace a two-dimensional
curve known as a corn spiral. So here is
the actual corn spiral
itself. So c of x is on the horizontal
axis and s of x is on the vertical axis.
The curve begins near the origin,
spirals outward and it curls inward
again. So this is showing us the
behavior uh of the oscilly behavior of
the s and cosine functions as they are
working together here.
So some applications of this they're
essential in optics as well.
They make uh core new spirals. They
describe defraction patterns and how
light bends around its edges.
Engineers use them with radar, antennas,
and imaging technology
as those are also related to optics.
The corner spiral is basically a tool
for predicting how the waves spread.
So, these functions are extremely
important when looking at light.
Anyways, I hope you like this video.
Please like, subscribe. We're trying to
get to 200 subscribers by the end of
this